---
layout: post
title: Beyond Self-Driving Cars
---

### The coming of self-driving cars

The self-driving car appears to be next big thing. All the major car
manufacturers have them in one form or another. Even Apple is [building
one](http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/aug/14/apple-self-driving-car-project-titan-sooner-than-expected).
A recent McKinsey
[article](http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/sustainability/full_speed_ahead_how_the_driverless_car_could_transform_cities)
claims the benefits include a reduction of cars on the roads by 80%,
shorter travel times and safer roads - which are all good goods.

Actually I was expecting some ideas around how the car and our mobile
devices will integrate to provide richer experiences but the benefits
listed by McKinsey was mundane but seems good enough.

### Beyond self-driving cars

To me, what's interesting is imagining what happens when all cars are
self driving. Perhaps the next logical step is an evolution of the car
itself in a way such that it separates the transport mechanism and the
passenger.

Passengers enter a pod which is attached to a "car". These "cars" can
exchange passenger pods on the roads to efficiently transfer and
transport passengers to their destinations.

Imagine this: Tomorrow morning, you leave your front door and enter a
pod. A vehicle comes along and picks up the pod which you are in and a
number of pods containing your various neighbours. As the vehicle enters
the main road, it syncs up with another vehicle. Once in sync, your pod
gets detached from your current vehicle and re-attached to the other
vehicle which collects people going to the same final destination. Along
the way, you get detached and attached several more times. Finally you
noticed your colleague who lives about 5 miles away is in the pod next
to you and realize that you are almost at the office. The vehicle speeds
ahead, picks up more passengers heading to the same building and once
fully loaded, makes it way without further syncs and unloads all of you
at the office. You fold up your pod and stash it away while the vehicle
speeds away to make further pickup and delivery.

### References

1. [The Guardian - Documents confirm Apple is building self-driving car](http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/aug/14/apple-self-driving-car-project-titan-sooner-than-expected)
2. [McKinsey - Full speed ahead: How the driverless car could transform cities](http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/sustainability/full_speed_ahead_how_the_driverless_car_could_transform_cities)

